# ECE385_Repo

This is an ECE385 Repo.

## Final Project

My final project for this course is **Escape From Meteorites**. It is a space shooting game. The Player's goal is to hit as many meteorites as he/she can while avoiding hitting other meteorites. This project is inspired by a retro game, **Raiden**. 

A short demo of my final project: 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1J88bSynmAHlpgqZX35A513HohG1H6zVb/view?usp=sharing

### Hardware
1. [DE10-Lite FPGA Board](https://www.terasic.com.tw/cgi-bin/page/archive.pl?Language=English&No=1021)
2. VGA Monitor and Cable
3. USB shield and keyboard

### Development Tool
1. Intel Quartus Prime Lite 18.1 
2. Eclipse 

Note: Intel Quartus Prime Lite 18.1 can only run on Windows.
### Folder Description
`final_project_newest` contains all the newest changes and files of my final project. 
- `385_code` contains `.sv` files of the final project.
- `final_project_platform` contains the *NIOS II SOC* of the final project.
- `software` contains the software project files of the final project.
- `software_Code` stores a copy of the software code.
- `workspace` stores the configuration of **Eclipse** workspace.
- `ECE385-HelperTools-master` is a helper tool created by the course TA.

Note: 
1. Unlisted folders are generated by **Development Tool**.
2. `old_final_project` contains the previous versions of my final project.
3. The helper tool is used to convert a PNG to a txt file, which can be easily loaded to the On-Chip memory. 

### How To Run 
You need to install **Intel Quartus Prime Lite** on their devices to run the project. Preferable version is 18.1. It should include **Eclipse** if installed correctly. It includes the USB-blaster driver for the FPGA board. If the driver is not installed properly, you can manually reinstall or update the driver on your device. To reinstall or update the driver, you need to go to **Device Manager**. In one of the USB drop downs, you should see an unknown device. Next, you right-click the unknown device and select **Update driver**. Then, you select **Browse my computer for drivers** option and provide the path to the Quartus folder.

After all the installations, here are the following steps:
1. Download `final_project_newest.zip` and extract all the folders and files
2. Open the extracted folder and click on `final_project` (it is a `.QPF` file)
3. Connect the USB shield and USB keyboard to the FPGA
4. Connect the VGA monitor to the FPGA
5. Go to **Processing** tab and click on **Start Compilation**
6. Connect the FPGA via USB and flash the compiled code to the FPGA via **Programmer** which can be found under **Tools** tab
7. Go to **Tools->Nios II Software Build Tools for Eclipse** and enter the path to `workspace` (see Folder Description)
8. Under **Run** tab, click on **Run Configuration->Run**

### Notes:
Please only use this repo as a reference. 
